The most valuable thing that you can
build on YouTube is a cult-like
audience. And there's nothing even
close. Because cult-like audiences
worship you, become repeat viewers, and
buy more products. So, here's the
million-doll question. Is there a
repeatable system for building a
cult-like YouTube audience? The answer
is yes. I've analyzed the biggest
cult-like YouTube audiences, and it
turns out there's a common pattern
across all of them. In this video, I'm
going to walk you through the system I
have created that's built multiple
cultlike audiences. If you care about
growing on YouTube, this will be the
most valuable video you watch this year.
But first, let's start with an
experiment. I'm going to read you two
approaches to the same topic about
hooks. Tell me which one makes you lean
in more. Approach one, to write a good
hook, you need to meet the viewers
expectations, then use a shocking
statement to reel them in. Or approach
two, when we tested common hooks on 50
videos, we saw a clear pattern. Videos
that opened with unintentional hooks
averaged 35% retention. But when we
disrupted viewers beliefs with
intentional hooks, the first 30-
secondond retention jumped to 67%. Let
me ask you, which one made you lean in?
Now, of course, it's the second one, and
I'm going to break down exactly why. If
we look at the script of approach one,
we are straight up telling the viewer
what makes a good hook. But approach two
does something a little bit different.
It gives specific numbers like 50
videos, 35% retention, 67% retention.
And I also brought up this term
unintentional hooks and intentional
hooks, which is a term I coined out of
nowhere. And by mentioning unintentional
and intentional, it makes you lean in
and want to find out more about what the
[music] difference is. And then I also
created some sort of contrast by showing
the gap between unintentional hooks and
intentional hooks. You can see here both
approaches try to explain hooks, but the
second approach is more specific,
creates more contrast, and has a
specific unique mechanism that creates
curiosity. And really, that is the
difference between me content that is
just possible versus something that
absolutely blows the viewer's mind.
Really, there's a big epidemic happening
on YouTube right now. It's that all
content feels watered down. Most YouTube
videos can be summarized into a six-s
sentence tweet, which is not what you
want. Aka, most content out there is
forgettable. But if you look at creators
with cult-like followings like Alex
Mozi, Luke Belmar, or whatever niche
creator that you enjoy, what they do is
compress massive value into just a few
sentences. So, it feels like whenever
you watch a short from them, or whenever
you watch one or two minutes of their
videos, you already get so much value
that it makes you want to continue
watching for longer. Or in other words,
they place a massive emphasis on the
value per minute. And value per minute
is exactly what I want to talk about
today. Because when you can maximize
your value per minute, you can build a
cult-like audience. Before we get into
that, let's define value per minute. The
value per minute is how much useful
insight, knowledge, and transformation
that the viewer gets in 60 seconds of
watching your video. It's how good the
content is. I want you to think about it
like this. When someone watches your
10-minute video, you have the chance to
completely change your viewers's life
with either giving them five new
breakthroughs, or you could completely
waste their time and give them one or
two surface level tips that they may or
may not apply. And really, most
YouTubers will completely waste their
viewers time [music] with being
unintentional about their content and
not really packaging their content to
maximize the value per minute and really
disrespecting the viewers time.
Ultimately, this is less about getting
YouTube views and more about respecting
your viewers time. Because if you
optimize for views, maybe you might do
all of these retention hack techniques,
[music]
right? You do 10 different tips in 10
minutes to keep the retention of the
viewer, but your viewers's life ends up
not changing because they can't even
apply a single [music] of that tip. Or
you go really deep, really maximize your
value per minute so that your viewer has
a chance to potentially turn their life
around with your transformational video.
There's a reason why there are experts
out there like Tony Robbins who you
could listen to for hours and [music]
hours and it feels like you're getting a
new gem for them every five minutes and
that's because they thought very deeply
about their message and they have the
expertise to connect dots between
industries. So they'll quote books,
they'll quote, you know, famous people
and that way it sounds like they're
super smart and they're giving you a
high value per minute. There's a reason
why Tony Robbins is a billionaire
compared to a podcast bro who hasn't
really gathered their thoughts, doesn't
really know how to interview people and
just rambles and rambles and rambles
with their thinking not being cohesive
at all. Once again, Tony Robbins is a
billionaire because he respects his
audience's time and maximizes the value
per minute. Whereas, your podcast bro is
completely broke because he doesn't
maximize his [music] value per minute
and thinks that, hey, because I talk for
1 hour, people should listen. That is
not the case. Here's what I see from
creators all the time. Someone will come
to me with 50,000 subscribers, but their
audience isn't engaged. They probably
average two to three,000 views a video,
very few comments, very few shares, and
nobody's really buying when they launch
a product. And when you take a deep dive
into their last three scripts, all of
them structure their content the exact
same way. Every script is just tip one,
tip two, tip three, with no depth, no
evidence, and no stories. Just their
opinions stacked on top of each other
and content that's being recycled. You
might have been able to get away with
this a few years ago when there were
very few YouTube creators, but right now
YouTube is competitive as ever. And
really, the best way that you can
compete if you're an educational creator
is maximizing the value per minute,
which might sound super tough to
compress all of your knowledge into one
minute and have it be as valuable as
possible. But the thing is, 99% of other
YouTubers don't ever think of this. So,
if you spend more than 5 minutes trying
to maximize your value per minute, your
video will perform just that much
better. Cool. Now we understand that we
need to maximize our value per minute.
So what is a practical way of going
about scripting our videos and
structuring [music] our content to
actually maximize for impact? I call it
the layering method. Let me break it
down. This is probably going to be the
most valuable insight that you get all
year. And if you apply this layering
method to your YouTube videos, you'll
not only come off as much smarter and an
authority to your audience, but it will
also make your [music] audience love you
for it. Layering means adding multiple
types of evidence to support every major
point. So instead of saying hooks are
important, you need to layer in evidence
that [music] proves it. So for example,
a statistic, case study, personal story,
and this makes your point feel
undeniable because more than anything,
what you want to do is craft how viewers
perceive you. Layering is so powerful
because it speaks to different
personality types because within your
audience, some people are datadriven,
some people are skeptical, some are
visual thinkers, some need more examples
and stories. And to go even further, if
you deep dive into your audience,
everyone falls into four personalities
that follows the disk [music]
personality framework. And this is the
framework that most of the top
copyriters and marketers use to
understand their [music] audience. It
categorizes people into four types. D
for dominant, which are [music] the
results focused people. And these
viewers want to get to the bottom line
faster and they want to see [music]
proof that it actually works. So for
people that are more dominant in your
audience, you want to use [music]
statistics, case studies, and before
results. Secondly, I for influential.
These viewers care about stories and
social proof. They think who else has
done this? How did it feel? And how did
it work for them? So layers that work
for influential types are personal
[music] stories, testimonials, and real
examples from relatable people. And
number three, S for steady. These
viewers are more process focused. So for
your steady guys, you want to have clear
explanations, expert quotes, and
step-by-step tutorials. And C is for
conscientious. These are your more
detail focused people. And these guys
are driven by data. They ask, "Where's
the data? How is this accurate?" And you
appeal to them by using credible sources
and using [music] statistics. When you
only use one type of evidence, which
let's say it's a statistic hook, you
only connect with one type [music] of
viewer that are the results focused
viewer. But when you layer in two to
three different types of evidence for
each point that you talk about, you hit
all four different personality types.
[music] The story people get their fix,
the data people get their stats, the
skeptics get their proof, and the detail
people get their specific [music]
sources. So we want to appeal to all of
them with different types of evidence as
much as possible. And in terms of the
seven different types of evidence that
you can layer in, I want to break this
down even further. So layer one that you
can use is psychological studies. So
this is research from universities,
peer-review journals and behavioral
studies. And this shows the science
behind why something works. So for
example, Stanford research, Oxford
research or the pure research center. If
you site from any of these, I consider
these to be psychological studies. Layer
two could be business case studies. So
these are real examples from companies
or documented business results. They
prove that what you're teaching actually
works in the real world. So for example,
if you're a business mentor, you can
talk about how you help someone grow
their business. Or if I talk about a
specific YouTube video, I can say, "Oh,
this is how I apply this method to help
this video hit 210,000 views in 10
days." So once again, it's specific with
specific case studies and showing
specific examples here. Or layer three,
which is statistical evidence. So these
are hard numbers from credible sources
like government data, research reports,
or financial studies. And these numbers
make your point feel more concrete and
impossible to argue with. So if I say
missing the four best S&P 500 days drops
returns from 291% to 164%, I'm once
again citing specific data from credible
sources. So you can't really argue with
that. Layer four, real life stories. So
these are documented stories about real
individuals who illustrate your point
and they can make abstract concepts feel
relatable and human. So for example, if
you're someone like Alex Ramosi and you
want to draw connections between [music]
you and business legends like Warren
Buffett, he will constantly reference
Warren Buffett and talk about the story
of Warren Buffett. So that way he can
[music] create that sort of association
there. So that's a little mind hack
there for you. Layer five, book
references. These are insights from
respected authors or recognized
authorities in your field. So this
borrows credibility from established
experts to back up your point. So once
again, if you meet someone new for the
first time and you ask them about their
experience and they start quoting books
that they've read, you're instantly
going to [music] think that they are
much smarter. So if you can quote books
and connect it to the actual topic that
you're talking about, you're going to
sound a lot smarter and it's going to
sound a lot [music] more valuepacked.
Layer six, using current events. So
these are recent news stories or
documented events that your audience
already knows about. So this makes what
you're teaching them feel relevant and
timely. So for example, at the day of
recording this a couple days ago, there
was a major crypto crash. And if you use
the concept of a major crypto crash to
talk about how volatile markets can be
[music] and really illustrate your
point, that will make it seem a lot more
relevant to your viewer. And the final
layer, layer seven, which is my personal
favorite, is using personal stories. So
these are your own documented results
and experiences and they show that
you've actually done what you're
teaching and also create some sort of
vulnerability that makes people like you
more. So for example, my personal story
is that I went from being in the
Singapore military for 2 years to
[music] being a YouTube script writer
that started traveling the world and
growing a YouTube channel that has
allowed me to live my dream life. That
is personal story makes it more
relatable. You can see the
transformation there and it's a lot more
compelling when it comes from a personal
place. Now, that's pretty much all of
the theory. So, let me show you how you
actually apply this in your script for a
couple different niches. So, let's say
you're making a video about how to start
a side hustle. If you were to write it
without layering, it would sound
something like before you start a side
hustle, validate your idea first. Talk
to potential customers and make sure
they'll actually pay for what you're
offering. So, once again, that's basic
advice that everyone gives. Now let me
read out how it will sound when you
start layering this concept with
different evidence, different personal
stories and how compelling it can
become. So with layering, you start with
the hook which says 67% of side hustles
fail in the first year. Not because the
idea was bad, but because the founder
never talked to a single customer before
building. Validation isn't about asking
people if your idea is good. It's about
getting people to commit money before
you build anything. Harvard Business
School tracked 100 startups and found
that companies who secured pre-orders
before building had an 84% success rate
compared to 23% for those who built
first and sold later. When I launched my
script writing agency, I didn't build a
website first. [music] I sent code
emails to 50 YouTubers offering to write
one free script. 10 said yes. Tree asked
if they could hire me for more. And
that's when I knew I had a real
business. Most of you watching this
probably have a side hustle idea, but
you're waiting until everything's
perfect to launch, and that's costing
you months of feedback and real world
learning. Before you build anything,
find 10 people who match your target
customer. Ask them if they pay X for
your solution. If three or more say yes,
you have validation. If not, adjust your
offer and ask again. And you can see
over here, I started with a strong hook.
And can you see the difference here when
I layer a concept versus just straight
up explaining it? Over here, you can see
I lead of a hook. I go to a main point.
I have a specific study that I cite. And
then I have a personal story. I lead
with personal connection. And then I end
with a call to action that allows them
to, hey, I can take this advice right
now and apply it for myself. What I want
you to notice here is that every single
sentence has a [music] purpose. There's
actually a function to every single
sentence that I'm reading out loud. And
I am very clear in terms [music] of the
function of each sentence. And really,
that's how you maximize your value per
minute if you're [music] very
intentional about every single word,
every single statistic, every single
story that you're citing and how it
connects to the main [music] point that
you're trying to make. Let's look at
another example in the personal
development niche. So, let's say you're
making a video about building better
habits. So, without layering, if the
point is to build better habits, use
habit stacking. [music] Attach a new
habit to an existing one. Right? That's
a pretty simple way, pretty generic
advice that you've heard a thousand
times. But when you start layering it,
watch how it gets a lot more complex and
it makes you sound a lot smarter and
it's a lot more valuable for the viewer.
So, we start with the hook. Most people
fail at habit building because they try
to create habits from scratch. But
neuroscience shows that's fighting
against how your brain actually works.
Your brain runs on neuropathways. The
more you do something, the stronger that
pathway gets. Habit stacking works
because you're attaching a new behavior
to an existing strong path. A 2022 study
published in the European Journal of
Social Psychology found that habits
attached to existing routines were 3.2
times more likely to stick after 66 days
compared to standalone habits. James
Clear documents this in atomic habits
too. One of his readers wanted to build
a meditation habit. Instead of
meditating whenever she stacked it after
I pull my morning coffee, I will
meditate for 2 minutes and within 30
days it was automatic. Think about a
habit you've been trying to build. How
many times have you said I'll do it
later and then never did? That's because
you're relying on willpower instead of
structure. So, pick one existing habit
you do every single day. Brushing teeth,
making coffee, sitting at your desk,
then attach your new habit immediately
after. Start small and build the neural
pathway. So, you can see here I link
habit building to neuroscience, which
allows me to site specific psychological
studies. And then I can also site a book
from James Clear, which is a book about
habits. [music] So, you should 100%
quote it. So, by layering your script
with different types of evidence, you
once again appeal to different types of
audiences and different personality
types, which makes your script all the
more compelling. And by having these
different types of evidence weaved in
together, you help your viewer get that
aha moment faster. And when your viewer
gets that aha moment faster, they're
more likely to binge watch one video to
another video to another video on your
channel. And that dramatically increases
your watch time and eventually allows
you to build a cult-like audience.
That's when viewers feel compelled to
share your content because it's so
valuable. It's so well researched and
it's content they would want all of
their friends to watch. So now if you're
wondering how you can dig through all of
these research papers and all of these
books to find different ways to layer
your script. The great news is you don't
have to read through hours and hours of
research papers anymore. You have this
magical tool called AI. So here's my
actual process to get AI to do the heavy
lifting. So you can go to chatdy claude
or what I use is subscriber AI which is
a YouTube script writing tool. You can
do research within it. Doesn't matter
what tool you use. You can give it your
topic and ask find me three to five
credible sources that support this
specific point. And boom in 2 minutes
you have options for your layers. And
what you want to do is you want to go
back and forth with Claude and Chad GPT
until you have something compelling that
you think your audience will trust. But
the caveat with using AI to do this
research is that you want to verify your
sources. You want to make sure that it
comes from something credible. Either it
comes from a university, a research lab.
And ideally, you don't quote anything
from blogs or articles because blogs or
articles, people don't really perceive
them to be super duper credible. And
don't just cherrypick research. You want
to make sure that what you're saying
fully represents the research. So that's
for skimming research papers. Step two
is to mine the bestselling books in your
space. What you want to do is go to
Amazon, find three to five books within
your niche, and read the first few
chapters because the first few chapters
is where the authors usually frontload a
lot of the case studies and their best
stories. Screenshot the best of it, and
then you can use it to reference in your
scripts. This usually takes about 10
minutes per book, but this will give you
20 different references within an hour
or two. And voila, just like that, you
have a bunch of resource materials that
you can reference immediately. Once
again, whenever you're not sure, really
tragedy and claude is your best friend.
Hey, help me find layers. Help me find
analogies. What is a personal story that
I can inject here that can make this
point a lot more compelling? Whenever
you're doing this, you want to always
keep your audience front and center. You
definitely don't want to them
and give them too much information at
once. Once again, layer it and make sure
each single layer targets a certain
personality type and actually gets them
to understand the concept a lot clearer
rather than just stuffing it with fluff.
Once again, it's the value per minute,
not how many minutes that you're talking
about it. But knowing how to layer is
only one part of the equation. The other
part is mastering the entire script
writing system that ties everything
together like the hook structure, the
flow of the body, the retention
technique, the packaging psychology. And
if you want to master all of these, then
click on this video over here where I do
a 4hour deep dive into everything that I
know about YouTube script writing that
has generated billions of views and
millions in revenue with it. Thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next